4.12 OLM release notes: OSDOCS-4624, OSDOCS-4111, OSDOCS-4108 (#54466)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-12-release-notes.adoc

For more information on platform Operators, see xref:../operators/admin/olm-managing-po.adoc#olm-managing-po[Managing platform Operators]. For more information on RukPak and its resources, see xref:../operators/understanding/olm-packaging-format.adoc#olm-rukpak-about_olm-packaging-format[Operator Framework packaging format].

[id="ocp-4-12-olm-operator-node-affinity"]
==== Controlling where an Operator is installed

> By default, when you install an Operator, OpenShift Container Platform installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes randomly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when you install an Operator, {product-title} randomly installs the Operator pod to one of your worker nodes.
```

> In {product-title} 4.12, you can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding affinity constraints to the Operator’s `Subscription` object.

Reviewer: Attribute:
```suggestion
In {product-title} {product-version}, you can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding affinity constraints to the Operator’s `Subscription` object.
```

> In {product-title} 4.12, you can control where an Operator pod is installed by adding node affinity or pod anti-affinity constraints to the Operator’s Subscription object.

Reviewer 2: I think here we either want to just say affinity constraints or we want to list out node affinity, pod affinity, or pod anti-affinity. Otherwise it's a strange omission.

Author: Fixed!

For more information, see xref:../operators/admin/olm-adding-operators-to-cluster.adoc#olm-overriding-operator-pod-affinity_olm-adding-operators-to-a-cluster[Controlling where an Operator is installed].

[id="ocp-4-12-olm-pod-security-label-synchronization"]

> ==== Pod security admission synchronization for user-created openshift-* namespaces

Reviewer: Should this be in backticks since it's a literal [object reference](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#api-object-object-references)?
```suggestion
==== Pod security admission synchronization for user-created `openshift-*` namespaces
```

Author: We are not supposed to put markup (including literals) in headings. ([repo guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assemblymodule-titles-and-section-headings)) Though it often occurs in the docs.

Reviewer: gotcha, is there a way to refer to it in some other way? E.g. `apiserver` can be referred to as "API server". The way it's presented currently looks sort of bizarre, but I'm not sure there's a good change to be made here.

Author: It is weirdly specific. The syncing does not occur for system created `openshift-` prefixed namespaces, only user-created ones. I debated going with _OpenShift prefixed namespaces_ but then it becomes inaccurate.

> In {product-title} 4.12, pod security admission syncrhonization is turned on by default if an Operator is installed in user-created namespaces that have an `openshift-` prefix. Synchronization is turned on after a cluster service version (CSV) is created in the namespace. The synchronized label inherits the permissions of the service accounts in the namespace.

Reviewer: Attribute, rewording suggestion, and typo fix:
```suggestion
In {product-title} {product-version}, pod security admission synchronization is enabled by default if an Operator is installed in user-created namespaces that have an `openshift-` prefix. Synchronization is enabled after a cluster service version (CSV) is created in the namespace. The synchronized label inherits the permissions of the service accounts in the namespace.
```

> For more information, see xref:../understanding-and-managing-pod-security-admission.html#security-context-constraints-psa-synchronization_understanding-and-managing-pod-security-admission[Security context constraint synchronization with pod security standards].

Reviewer: This xref is giving me a 404, but it also needs to be `.adoc` instead of `.html`

Author: ah! Thank you. I thought I caught that one.

* If necessary, you can set a custom admission profile on the namespace or pod by setting the `pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce` label.

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-12-olm-catalogs-and-psa-restricted-enforcement"]
==== Catalog sources and restricted pod security admission enforcement

Catalog sources built using the SQLite-based catalog format and a version of the `opm` CLI tool released before {product-title} 4.11 cannot run under restricted pod security enforcement.

In {product-title} {product-version}, namespaces do not have restricted pod security enforcement by default and the default catalog source security mode is set to `legacy`.

> If you do not want to run your SQLite-based catalog source pods as restricted, you do not need to update your catalog source in {product-title} {product-version}. However, it is recommended that you take action now to ensure your catalog sources run under restricted pod security enforcement. If you do not take action to ensure your catalog sources run under restricted pod security enforcement, your catalog sources might not run in future {product-title} releases.

Reviewer: ISG generally avoids saying something is recommended and instead just advises to tell users to just do something...not sure how to reword this completely, but what do you think about:
```suggestion
To run your SQL-based catalog source pods under restricted pod security enforcement, update your catalog source in {product-title} {product-version}. This ensures that your catalog sources run future {product-title} releases.

As a catalog author, you can enable compatibility with restricted pod security enforcement by completing either of the following actions:

* Migrate your catalog to the file-based catalog format.
* Update your catalog image with a version of the `opm` CLI tool released with {product-title} 4.11 or later.

If you do not want to update your SQLite database catalog image or migrate your catalog to the file-based catalog format, you can configure your catalog to run with elevated permissions.

> For more information, see xref:../operators/admin/olm-managing-custom-catalogs.adoc#olm-catalog-sources-and-psa_olm-managing-custom-catalogs[Catalog sources and pod security admission].

Reviewer: The heading this xref takes me to doesn't match the displayed link text here, not sure if it's an issue but just noting it

* If necessary, you can set a custom admission profile on the namespace or pod by setting the `pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce` label.

[discrete]
[id="ocp-4-12-olm-catalogs-and-psa-restricted-enforcement"]
=== Catalog sources and restricted pod security admission enforcement

Catalog sources built using the SQLite-based catalog format and a version of the `opm` CLI tool released before {product-title} 4.11 cannot run under restricted pod security enforcement.

In {product-title} {product-version}, namespaces do not have restricted pod security enforcement by default and the default catalog source security mode is set to `legacy`.

> If you do not want to run your SQLite-based catalog source pods under restricted pod security enforcement, you do not need to update your catalog source in {product-title} {product-version}. However, if you do not take action to ensure your catalog sources run under restricted pod security enforcement, your catalog sources might not run in future {product-title} releases.

Reviewer: This is looking good! I know ISG says to try and avoid negative constructions, so what do you think about this suggestion?
```suggestion
If you do not want to run your SQLite-based catalog source pods under restricted pod security enforcement, you do not need to update your catalog source in {product-title} {product-version}. However, to ensure your catalog sources run in future {product-title} releases, you must take action and update your catalog sources to run under restricted pod security enforcement.
```

Author: Suggestion applied. Thank you!
